Public Provident Fund (PPF) - Scheme Details

(1) Who can open:-
(i) a single adult who is a resident Indian.
(ii) a guardian on behalf of minor/ person of unsound mind.

(2) Number of account:-
(i) only one account can be opened by an individual across the country either in Post Office or any Bank.

(3) Deposit:-
(i) Minimum ₹ 500/- and Maximum ₹ 1,50,000/- in a financial year.
(ii) Deposits can be made in lump-sum or in installments.
(iii) Maximum limit of ₹ 1.50 lakh is inclusive of the deposits made in his/her own account and in the account opened on behalf of minor.

(4) Discontinuation of account:-
(i) If in any financial year, minimum deposit of ₹ 500/- is not made, the said PPF account shall become discontinued.
(ii) Loan and withdrawal facility is not available on discontinued accounts.
(iii) Discontinued account can be revived by the depositor before maturity of the account by deposit of minimum subscription (i.e. ₹ 500) and default fee of ₹ 50 for each defaulted year.

(5) Interest:-
(i) Interest shall be applicable as notified by Ministry of Finance on quarterly basis.
(ii) Interest shall be calculated for the calendar month on the lowest balance at the credit of an account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month.
(iii) Interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year.
(iv) Interest is tax free under Income Tax Act.

(6) Withdrawal:-
(i) A depositor can take partial withdrawals after the expiry of five years excluding the year of account opening. (from 6th Financial Year onwards).
(ii) Amount of withdrawal can be taken up to 50% of balance at the credit of preceding financial year or at the end of 4th preceding financial year, whichever is lower.

(7) Loan:-
(i) Loan can be taken after the expiry of one year from the end of the FY in which the account was opened. (i.e. between 3rd to 6th FY).
(ii) If first loan is repaid, second loan can be taken.

(8) Maturity/Closure:-
(i) Account will be matured after 15 financial years excluding the year of account opening.
(ii) On maturity depositor has following options:-(a) Can take maturity payment by submitting account closure form. (b) Can retain maturity value in the same account without further deposit. PPF interest rate will be applicable and withdrawal can be taken any time or one withdrawal in each FY. (c) Can extend his/her account for a further block of 5 years and so on (within one year of maturity).

(9) Premature Closure:-
(i) Premature closure shall be allowed after 5 years from the end of the year in which the account was opened subject to following conditions:-(a) In case of life threatening disease of account holder, his spouse or dependent children. (b) In case of higher education of account holder or dependent children. (c) In case of change of resident status of account holder.
(ii) At the time of premature closure 1% interest shall be deducted from the date of opening/extension of account.

(10) Nomination:-
(i) Mandatory at the time of account opening.
(ii) Change in nomination can be done any time.

(11) Transfer of account:-
(i) Account can be transferred from one Post office to another, from Post Office to Bank and vice versa.
