Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (SCSS) - Scheme Details

(1) Who can open:-
(i) An individual above 60 years of age.
(ii) Retired Civilian Employees above 55 years of age and below 60 years of age, subject to the condition that investment to be made within 1 month of receipt of retirement benefits.
(iii) Retired Defense Employees above 50 years of age and below 60 years of age, subject to the condition that investment to be made within 1 month of receipt of retirement benefits.
(iv) Account can be opened as individual or jointly with spouse only.

(2) Deposit:-
(i) Minimum deposit shall be ₹ 1000 and in multiple of ₹ 1000.
(ii) Maximum limit is ₹ 30 lakh in all SCSS accounts opened by an individual.
(iii) The whole amount of deposit in a joint account shall be attributable to the first account holder only.

(3) Interest:-
(i) 8.2 % per annum, payable from the date of deposit of 31st March/30th June/30th Sept/31st December.
(ii) If the interest payable every quarter is not claimed by an account holder, such interest shall not earn additional interest.
(iii) Interest is taxable if total interest in all SCSS accounts exceeds ₹ 50,000/- in a financial year and TDS at the prescribed rate shall be deducted from the total interest paid.
(iv) Investment under this scheme qualifies for the benefit of section 80C of Income Tax Act, 1961.

(4) Premature Closure:-
(i) Account can be prematurely closed any time after the date of opening.
(ii) If account closed before 1 year, no interest will be payable and if any interest paid in account shall be recovered from principle.
(iii) If account closed after 1 year but before 2 years from the date of opening, an amount equal to 1.5 % will be deducted from the principle.
(iv) If account closed after 2 years but before 5 years from the date of opening, an amount equal to 1 % will be deducted from the principle.

(5) Maturity:-
(i) Account may be closed after 5 years from the date of opening by submitting prescribed application form.

(6) Extension of account:-
(i) The account holder may extend the account for a further block of 3 years.
(ii) Application for extension should be made within 1 year from the date of maturity.
(iii) Extension can be done for any number of blocks of 3 years each.
