Sukanya Samriddhi Account (SSA) - Scheme Details

(1) Who can open:-
(i) By the guardian in the name of a girl child below the age of 10 years.
(ii) Only one account can be opened in India either in Post Office or in any bank in the name of a girl child.
(iii) This account can be opened for maximum two girls in a family. In case of twins/triplets girls birth more than two accounts can be opened.

(2) Deposit:-
(i) Minimum ₹ 250/- and Maximum ₹ 1,50,000/- in a financial year.
(ii) Subsequent deposits in multiple of ₹ 50/-.
(iii) Deposits can be made in lump-sum.
(iv) There is no limit on number of deposits either in a month or in a financial year.

(3) Discontinuation of account:-
(i) If minimum ₹ 250/- is not deposited in a financial year, the account will be treated under default.
(ii) Defaulted account can be revived before completion of 15 years from the date of opening of account by paying minimum ₹ 250/- + ₹ 50 penalty for each defaulted year.

(4) Interest:-
(i) Interest shall be applicable as notified by the Ministry of Finance on quarterly basis.
(ii) The interest shall be calculated for the calendar month on the lowest balance in the account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month.
(iii) The interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year.
(iv) Interest earned is tax free under Income Tax Act.

(5) Operation of Account:-
(i) Account will be operated by the guardian till the girl child attains the age of 18 years or 10th standard pass whichever is earlier.

(6) Withdrawal:-
(i) Withdrawal can be taken from the account of girl child after she attains the age of 18 years or passes 10th standard.
(ii) Withdrawal up to 50% of the balance available at the end of preceding F.Y. can be taken.

(7) Premature Closure:-
(i) Account can be closed prematurely after 5 years of account opening on following conditions:-(a) On the death of account holder. (b) On extreme compassionate grounds i.e. Life threatening disease of account holder or death of guardian.
(ii) For closure of account on marriage of girl child after attaining age of 18 years.

(8) Closure on Maturity:-
(i) The account shall mature on completion of 21 years from the date of opening.
(ii) Or at the time of marriage of the girl child after attaining age of 18 years. (1 month before or 3 months after date of marriage).
